about.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: "Xtract Solutions Documentation | About"
permalink: /about/
---

# About This Site

## Installation

**For normal interactions with the site, like reading documents or adding new ones, you don't need to install anything** - but if you need to change the layout or want to test your checklist locally, you'll need to set up your environment.

The site runs on github-pages, which interprets pages using Jekyll and Liquid. So, to run this locally, we need to set that up.

1. [Install Ruby](https://www.ruby-lang.org/en/downloads/)
1. Clone the repo
1. Navigate to your repo directory
1. Open a console and run the following commands:
  - Install Bundler and Jekyll gems: `gem install bundler jekyll`
  - Run the Jekyll server: `bundler exec jekyll serve`
1. Navigate to `localhost:4000`

You can now make changes to your local version and watch the changes live(-ish) in your browser.

## Adding New Documents

This site is [post](https://jekyllrb.com/docs/posts/)-based, which means that we are leveraging Jekyll's internal handling of `_posts` to organize and display the documents.

You can either add documents inside your cloned repo, or directly from the Github interface. The only difference is that if you have cloned the repo, you will need to commit and push/create pull request, whereas the Github UI handles that stuff for you on a transactional basis.

To add a new document:
1. Navigate to `/_posts`
1. Create a new file with the filename `{YYYY}-{MM}-{DD}-{Title}.md`, where:
  - `{YYYY}` is the 4 digit year
  - `{MM}` is the 1-2 digit month (can have leading 0 or not)
  - `{DD}` is the 1-2 digit day (can have leading 0 or not)
  - `{Title}` is the title. The title can have spaces, as Jekyll slugifies the titles, but for operating system safety, it's best to use underscores or dashes between words.
1. Open your file
1. Add the following [front matter](https://jekyllrb.com/docs/front-matter/) to the top of the file:
```yaml
---
title: 
author: 
categories: []
excerpt: 
---
```
1. Edit the front matter to include a `title`, `author`, `categories`, and `excerpt`. These properties are mandatory for order and sanity to prevail - don't be the loser that doesn't fill them out!
  - `categories` is an array of plain strings, e.g. `categories: [ Q&A, Checklist, Draft ]`, and can have as many categories as you want. Be aware that if a post has no categories, it will not show up on the home page list.
  - You may wish to look at the main listing to see what categories already exist
1. Commit your document
  - Github Pages only allows up to 10 new builds per hour, and it generally takes between 10 and 60 seconds to build a new version. If your changes don't appear immediately, this may be why.

## Site-wide Config Changes

You can change overarching info about the site in the `/_config.yml` file.

You can change the syntax highlighting color scheme by editing the `/css/default.css` file, and changing the `@import` line to point to a different CSS file in `/css/syntax`. By default, I have included *fruity*, *github*, *monokai*, *native*, *zenburn*, and our own branded style, *xtract*.

You can change the font by adding the font to `/css/fonts`, and adding it to `/css/default.css` as a new font face (or edit the existing entry, just remember to change the name). The default font used is *Raleway*.

The header and footer on all of the pages can be found in `/_includes`. Be aware that changing these will change the look and feel of ALL pages, as all pages are currently using the `default` layout, which loads the header and footer. You can use Liquid to make decisions based on what page you're on to do page-specific things. But, like, don't do that, please. Simple is better.

You can add images to `/images`. Feel free to create subdirectories under that if that makes organization/naming easier.

Pagination was too much of a pain in the ass to set up, which informs much of how the rest of the site was configured. Pagination does not work in Github Pages unless it's in an `html` file, and there was just no valid reason to go through that effort just for some pagination. 

## Resources
* [Ruby](https://www.ruby-lang.org/en/)
* [Bundler](https://bundler.io/)
* [Jekyll](https://jekyllrb.com/)
* [Liquid](https://shopify.github.io/liquid/)
* [YAML](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/YAML)
* [Github Pages](https://pages.github.com/)
* [Markdown (for Github)](https://guides.github.com/features/mastering-markdown/)
* [Ruby Gems available by default on Github Pages](https://pages.github.com/versions/)

Commit message:

Added some new documents. Added jekyll-mentions gem, which allows for github mentions (@addama), although it doesn't notify them, just links to them.

about.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: "Xtract Solutions Documentation | About"
permalink: /about/
---

# About This Site

***The Xtract Solutions Documentation Site is open to the public; do not make documents including proprietary, HIPAA, or customer data!***

## Installation

**For normal interactions with the site, like reading documents or adding new ones, you don't need to install anything** - but if you need to change the layout or want to test your checklist locally, you'll need to set up your environment.

The site runs on github-pages, which interprets pages using Jekyll and Liquid. So, to run this locally, we need to set that up.

1. [Install Ruby](https://www.ruby-lang.org/en/downloads/)
1. Clone the repo
1. Navigate to your repo directory
1. Open a console and run the following commands:
  - Install Bundler and Jekyll gems: `gem install bundler jekyll`
  - Run the Jekyll server: `bundler exec jekyll serve`
1. Navigate to `localhost:4000`

You can now make changes to your local version and watch the changes live(-ish) in your browser.

## Adding New Documents

This site is [post](https://jekyllrb.com/docs/posts/)-based, which means that we are leveraging Jekyll's internal handling of `_posts` to organize and display the documents.

You can either add documents inside your cloned repo, or directly from the Github interface. The only difference is that if you have cloned the repo, you will need to commit and push/create pull request, whereas the Github UI handles that stuff for you on a transactional basis.

To add a new document:
1. Navigate to `/_posts`
1. Create a new file with the filename `{YYYY}-{MM}-{DD}-{Title}.md`, where:
  - `{YYYY}` is the 4 digit year
  - `{MM}` is the 1-2 digit month (can have leading 0 or not)
  - `{DD}` is the 1-2 digit day (can have leading 0 or not)
  - `{Title}` is the title. The title can have spaces, as Jekyll slugifies the titles, but for operating system safety, it's best to use underscores or dashes between words.
1. Open your file
1. Add the following [front matter](https://jekyllrb.com/docs/front-matter/) to the top of the file:
```yaml
---
title: 
author: 
categories: []
excerpt: 
---
```
1. Edit the front matter to include a `title`, `author`, `categories`, and `excerpt`. These properties are mandatory for order and sanity to prevail - don't be the loser that doesn't fill them out!
  - `categories` is an array of plain strings, e.g. `categories: [ Q&A, Checklist, Draft ]`, and can have as many categories as you want. Be aware that if a post has no categories, it will not show up on the home page list.
  - You may wish to look at the main listing to see what categories already exist
1. Commit your document
  - Github Pages only allows up to 10 new builds per hour, and it generally takes between 10 and 60 seconds to build a new version. If your changes don't appear immediately, this may be why.

## Formatting Tips

Documents should be header-based. Use different sized headers (`#`, `##`, `###`) to organize your text and make it easier to read.

Always wrap variables and short code snippets in a code tag. It takes a little longer to type it the first time, but it makes reading and searching for variables and code easier.

If you want to center an image on the page, add `?style=center` to the image URL, e.g.: `![Xtract Solutions logo](/images/logo.png?style=center)`

Space your markdown out - whitespace matters! Add new lines before and after each header, image, paragraph, table, etc. If you don't, it becomes harder to edit in the future, and can have unintended formatting effects.

## Site-wide Config Changes

You can change overarching info about the site in the `/_config.yml` file.

You can change the syntax highlighting color scheme by editing the `/css/default.css` file, and changing the `@import` line to point to a different CSS file in `/css/syntax`. By default, I have included *fruity*, *github*, *monokai*, *native*, *zenburn*, and our own branded style, *xtract*.

You can change the font by adding the font to `/css/fonts`, and adding it to `/css/default.css` as a new font face (or edit the existing entry, just remember to change the name). The default font used is *Raleway*.

The header and footer on all of the pages can be found in `/_includes`. Be aware that changing these will change the look and feel of ALL pages, as all pages are currently using the `default` layout, which loads the header and footer. You can use Liquid to make decisions based on what page you're on to do page-specific things. But, like, don't do that, please. Simple is better.

You can add images to `/images`. Feel free to create subdirectories under that if that makes organization/naming easier.

Pagination was too much of a pain in the ass to set up, which informs much of how the rest of the site was configured. Pagination does not work in Github Pages unless it's in an `html` file, and there was just no valid reason to go through that effort just for some pagination. 

## Resources
* [Ruby](https://www.ruby-lang.org/en/)
* [Bundler](https://bundler.io/)
* [Jekyll](https://jekyllrb.com/)
* [Liquid](https://shopify.github.io/liquid/)
* [YAML](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/YAML)
* [Github Pages](https://pages.github.com/)
* [Markdown (for Github)](https://guides.github.com/features/mastering-markdown/)
* [Ruby Gems available by default on Github Pages](https://pages.github.com/versions/)
